Split Updating Guide (#2233)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_updating-disconnected-server.adoc

Reviewer: I think that only this module should be Satellite-only, whereas the whole guide is applicable to upstream.
@ekohl Can you pls confirm this?

Author: Yes, I was in need of this information. Waiting for Ewoud to confirm.

Reviewer: @ekohl ping :)

Reviewer 2: Today we don't really have (upstream) documentation for disconnected installations, but on a technical level I don't see a reason why it would be Satellite-only. Except that it needs some modifications on the repositories (`RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion` and `RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion` need modification).

I think it's fine to make it Satellite-only now, but in the future someone could make it available upstream if they spend the time on it.

[id="Updating-Disconnected-{project-context}_{context}"]
= Updating a Disconnected {ProjectServer}

> Using this procedure, you can update your air-gapped {Project} setup where the connected {ProjectServer}, which synchronizes content from CDN, is air gapped from a disconnected {ProjectServer}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this procedure to update your air-gapped {Project} setup where the connected {ProjectServer}, which synchronizes content from CDN, is air gapped from a disconnected {ProjectServer}, to the next minor version.
```

.Procedure on the connected {ProjectServer}

. Ensure that you have synchronized the following repositories in your connected {ProjectServer}:
+
* {RepoRHEL8BaseOS}
* {RepoRHEL8AppStream}
* {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}
* {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}

> +
> . Download the debug certificate of the organization and store it locally at `/etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem` or a location of your choosing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. Download the debug certificate of the organization and store it locally at `/etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem` or a location of your choosing.
```

[id="Updating-Disconnected-Server_{context}"]
= Updating Disconnected {ProjectServer}

This section describes the steps needed to update in an Air-gapped Disconnected setup where the connected {ProjectServer} (which synchronizes content from CDN) is air gapped from a disconnected {ProjectServer}.

Complete the following steps on the connected {ProjectServer}.

. Ensure that you have synchronized the following repositories in your connected {ProjectServer}.
+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----
{RepoRHEL8BaseOS}
{RepoRHEL8AppStream}
{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}
{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
----
+

> . Download the debug certificate of the organization and store it locally at, for example, `/etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem` or a location of your choosing.

Author: Agree :+1:

sslverify = 1

[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}]
name={ProjectName} {ProjectVersion} for RHEL 8 RPMs x86_64
baseurl=https://{foreman-example-com}/pulp/content/My_Organization/Library/content/dist/layered/rhel8/x86_64/satellite/{ProjectVersion}/os
enabled=1
sslclientcert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslclientkey = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslcacert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/katello-server-ca.crt

[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}]
name={ProjectName} Maintenance {ProjectVersion} for RHEL 8 RPMs x86_64
baseurl=https://{foreman-example-com}/pulp/content/My_Organization/Library/content/dist/layered/rhel8/x86_64/sat-maintenance/{ProjectVersion}/os
enabled=1
sslclientcert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslclientkey = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslcacert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/katello-server-ca.crt
sslverify = 1
----
+
. In the configuration file, replace `/etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem` in `sslclientcert` and `sslclientkey` with the location of the downloaded organization debug certificate.
. Update `{foreman-example-com}` with correct FQDN for your deployment.

> . Replace `My_Organization` with the correct organization label in the `baseurl`.

Reviewer 3: Is there a way to indent all of these under one point and say `In the configuration file do the following:`?

Author: Formatted it even better :+1:

To obtain the organization label, enter the command:
+
----
# hammer organization list
----

. Enter the `reposync` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----

> # reposync --delete --download-metadata -p ~/{Project}-repos -n \

Reviewer 3: Because this uses the `Project` variable it makes the doc render with the folder as `~/Satellite-repos`. I feel like it looks more normal to just use lowercase `~/satellite-repos`.

Author: Addressed :+1:

[id="Updating-Disconnected-Server_{context}"]

> = Updating Disconnected {ProjectServer}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Updating a Disconnected {ProjectServer}
```

> This section describes how to update in an Air-gapped Disconnected setup where the connected {ProjectServer} (which synchronizes content from CDN) is air gapped from a disconnected {ProjectServer}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this procedure, you can update your air-gapped {Project} setup where the connected {ProjectServer}, which synchronizes content from CDN, is air gapped from a disconnected {ProjectServer}.
```

> **Complete the following steps on the connected {ProjectServer}.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure on the connected {ProjectServer}
```

> . Ensure that you have synchronized the following repositories in your connected {ProjectServer}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Ensure that you have synchronized the following repositories in your connected {ProjectServer}:
```

+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----
{RepoRHEL8BaseOS}
{RepoRHEL8AppStream}
{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}
{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}

> ----

Reviewer: Can we make this into a list instead?

* Update `{foreman-example-com}` with correct FQDN for your deployment.
* Replace `My_Organization` with the correct organization label in the `baseurl`.

. Obtain the organization label:
+
----
# hammer organization list
----

. Enter the `reposync` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----
# reposync --delete --download-metadata -p ~/{project-context}-repos -n \
 --disableplugin=foreman-protector \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8BaseOS} \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8AppStream} \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion} \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
----
+
This downloads the contents of the repositories from the connected {ProjectServer} and stores them in the directory `~/{Project}-repos`.
+
. Verify that the RPMs have been downloaded and the repository data directory is generated in each of the sub-directories of `~/{Project}-repos`.
. Archive the contents of the directory
+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----
# cd ~
# tar czf {Project}-repos.tgz {Project}-repos
----
. Use the generated `{Project}-repos.tgz` file to upgrade in the disconnected {ProjectServer}.

> **Perform the following steps on the disconnected {ProjectServer}:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure on the disconnected {ProjectServer}
```

[id="Updating-Disconnected-{project-context}_{context}"]
= Updating a Disconnected {ProjectServer}

> Use this procedure to update your air-gapped {Project} setup where the connected {ProjectServer}, which synchronizes content from CDN, is air gapped from a disconnected {ProjectServer}, to the next minor version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update your air-gapped {Project} setup where the connected {ProjectServer}, which synchronizes content from CDN, is air gapped from a disconnected {ProjectServer}, to the next minor version.
```
We should stop using this self-referential content as per IBM style guide. Please, rewrite also the other occurences in this PR.

Reviewer 4: unrelated to your PR: I just did a quick `grep` for "air-gapped" and "disconnected". I'm wondering if _solely_ using "disconnected" is a good idea?

Author: I would also go with `Disconnected` in place of `Air-Gapped` but will rely on your views. We can have a separate PR for the same.

Author: Reviewed at other places as well @Lennonka :+1:

.Prerequisite

> * Back up your {ProjectServer} and all {SmartProxyServers}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Back up your {ProjectServer}.
```
We're deadling only with the ProjectServer in this module.

For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}backing-up-{project-context}-server-and-{smart-proxy-context}_admin[Backing Up {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.

.Procedure on the connected {ProjectServer}

. Ensure that you have synchronized the following repositories in your connected {ProjectServer}:
+
* {RepoRHEL8BaseOS}
* {RepoRHEL8AppStream}
* {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}

> * {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}

Reviewer: Use this data for connected, they are the same.

Reviewer 5: Correct.

Author: Added :+1:

. Download the debug certificate of the organization and store it locally at `/etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem` or a location of your choosing.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}Creating_an_Organization_Debug_Certificate_admin[Creating an Organization Debug Certificate] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.

. Create a Yum configuration file under `/etc/yum.repos.d` with the following repository information:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----
[{RepoRHEL8BaseOS}]
name=Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 for x86_64 - BaseOS (RPMs)
baseurl=https://{foreman-example-com}/pulp/content/My_Organization/Library/content/dist/rhel8/8/x86_64/baseos/os

> enabled=1

Reviewer 2: By adding it in there you essentially make the server self-subscribed, which is something we don't support. If I read the help text right `--repo` (or `--repoid`) already enables it so I'd suggest to disable it by default.
```suggestion
enabled=0
```

enabled=1
sslclientcert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslclientkey = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslcacert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/katello-server-ca.crt
sslverify = 1

[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion}]
name={ProjectName} {ProjectVersion} for RHEL 8 RPMs x86_64
baseurl=https://{foreman-example-com}/pulp/content/My_Organization/Library/content/dist/layered/rhel8/x86_64/satellite/{ProjectVersion}/os
enabled=1
sslclientcert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslclientkey = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslcacert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/katello-server-ca.crt

[{RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}]
name={ProjectName} Maintenance {ProjectVersion} for RHEL 8 RPMs x86_64
baseurl=https://{foreman-example-com}/pulp/content/My_Organization/Library/content/dist/layered/rhel8/x86_64/sat-maintenance/{ProjectVersion}/os
enabled=1
sslclientcert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslclientkey = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslcacert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/katello-server-ca.crt
sslverify = 1
----
+

> . In the configuration file,

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
. In the configuration file, complete the following steps:
```

* For the `sslclientcert` and `sslclientkey` options, replace `/etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem` with the location of the downloaded organization debug certificate.

> * For the `{foreman-example-com}` option, specify the correct FQDN for your deployment.

Author: @Griffin-Sullivan @ehelms can you confirm this?

> * For the `{foreman-example-com}` option, specify the correct FQDN for your deployment.

Reviewer 2: It's not the disconnected, it's the server itself. The idea is that you add repositories for your own (connected) server. Then `reposync` (a command a few paragraphs below) uses that exact configuration. Note how `repoid` parameters match the section headers. So it is `{foreman-example-com}` like we use elsewhere.

> * For the `{foreman-example-com}` option, specify the correct FQDN for your deployment.

Author: From your view, I understand we should keep the original one.

> * Replace `My_Organization` with the correct organization label in the `baseurl`.

Reviewer 6: I suggest making the list symmetrical = start every bullet with the file option and follow with the action to be performed. It took me a long time to read this, especially the first bullet. My suggestion:

* For the `sslclientcert` and `sslclientkey` options, replace `/etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem` with the location of the downloaded organization debug certificate.
* For the `{foreman-example-com}` option, specify the correct FQDN for your deployment.
* For the `baseurl` option, replace `My_Organization` with the correct organization label.

Author: Even better :+1: Applying

. Obtain the organization label:
+
----
# hammer organization list
----

. Enter the `reposync` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----

> # reposync --delete --download-metadata -p ~/{project-context}-repos -n \

Reviewer 2: reposync is not installed by default, so that needs a specific instruction as well. I'd actually advise to use `dnf reposync` which can be installed by `dnf install 'dnf-command(reposync)'`. If you insist on using `reposync` then you need to install `yum-utils`.

Author: Considered `reposync` as required. Addressed :+1:

 --disableplugin=foreman-protector \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8BaseOS} \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8AppStream} \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion} \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
----
+
This downloads the contents of the repositories from the connected {ProjectServer} and stores them in the directory `~/{Project}-repos`.
+
. Verify that the RPMs have been downloaded and the repository data directory is generated in each of the sub-directories of `~/{Project}-repos`.
. Archive the contents of the directory:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----

> # cd ~
> # tar czf {Project}-repos.tgz {Project}-repos

Reviewer 2: I'd use `-C` to change directory.
```suggestion
# tar czf {Project}-repos.tgz -C ~ {Project}-repos
```

Or use the self documenting long option `--directory`.

----
. Use the generated `{Project}-repos.tgz` file to upgrade in the disconnected {ProjectServer}.

.Procedure on the disconnected {ProjectServer}

. Copy the generated `{Project}-repos.tgz` file to your disconnected {ProjectServer}.
. Extract the archive to anywhere accessible by the `root` user.
In the following example `/root` is the extraction location.
+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----

> # cd /root
> # tar zxf {Project}-repos.tgz

Reviewer 2: Again, use `-C` / `--directory`
```suggestion
# tar zxf {Project}-repos.tgz -C /root
```

enabled=1
sslclientcert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslclientkey = /etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem
sslcacert = /etc/pki/katello/certs/katello-server-ca.crt
sslverify = 1
----
+
. In the configuration file, complete the following steps:
* For the `sslclientcert` and `sslclientkey` options, replace `/etc/pki/katello/certs/org-debug-cert.pem` with the location of the downloaded organization debug certificate.
* For the `{foreman-example-com}` option, specify the correct FQDN for your deployment.
* For the `baseurl` option, replace `My_Organization` with your organization label.

. Obtain the organization label:
+
----
# hammer organization list
----

. Enter the `reposync` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----
# dnf reposync --delete --download-metadata -p ~/{project-context}-repos -n \
 --disableplugin=foreman-protector \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8BaseOS} \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8AppStream} \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteServerProductVersion} \
 --repoid {RepoRHEL8ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProductVersion}
----
+

> This downloads the contents of the repositories from the connected {ProjectServer} and stores them in the directory `~/{Project}-repos`.

Author: Modified the `~/{project-context}-repos` to `~/{Project}-repos`

> .Prerequisite

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.Prerequisites
```

* Back up your {ProjectServer}.
For more information, see {AdministeringDocURL}backing-up-{project-context}-server-and-{smart-proxy-context}_admin[Backing Up {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxyServer}] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
* Install `reposync` that is required for the updating procedure.
+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----

> {package-install} yum-utils 'dnf-command(reposync)'

Reviewer 4: On EL 8.8, running `dnf install yum-utils 'dnf-command(reposync)'` and `dnf install yum-utils` results in the same 8 packages that will be installed:

````
yum-utils
dbus-glib
dnf-plugins-core
python3-dateutil
python3-dbus
python3-dnf-plugins-core
python3-six
python3-systemd
````

Author: Right. I guess `yum-utils` does the job of `dnf-commmand(reposync)` by installing `dnf-plugins-core` along side `yum-utils`. Can we remove either of them? @ekohl

Reviewer 2: There's no need to install `yum-utils` if you use `dnf repoclosure`
```suggestion
{package-install} 'dnf-command(reposync)'
```

Reviewer 2: This was marked as resolved, but not actually done so I've submitted the suggestion as https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/2423

+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----

> # dnf reposync --delete --download-metadata -p ~/{project-context}-repos -n \

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# dnf reposync \
--delete \
--download-metadata \
-p ~/{project-context}-repos \
-n \
```

We generally have each argument on its own line. I am unsure if my proposed change makes things better or just more consistent. :shrug:
